# Comparative-Study-of-Autism-Spectrum-Disorder-Detection-between-Machine-Learning-Algorithms
India, with near about 855,000 positive cases, is the largest contributor of autistic children worldwide. It is said to be influenced by environmental and genetic causes; with no clear answer provided by the researchers till now. Brain imaging of autism affected children revealed that their brain structures are different than other neurotypical children, so it is widely accepted that damaged brain structure caused Autism Spectrum Disorder.


Conclusion: In the article, we studied different method to detect ASD using the machine learning methods viz KNN and RF. The experiment was done with a dataset collected from the UCI Repository and is named as Autistic Spectrum Disorder Screening Data for Adult. The acquired results indicate that KNN method produced high classification scores, indicated by accuracy, precision, recall and F1 score. In our experiment, we found that the KNN method is more effective than the RF for ASD data classification. We also observed that the early diagnosis of ASD is absolutely possible. If the number of data samples is large enough, the accuracy of the diagnosis of ASD by machine learning methods will be higher. The accuracy also depends on the completion level of the collected data. If the data of the ASD dataset is complete, the accuracy of the early diagnosis of ASD will be high. Finally, it can be confirmed that with the KNN method, we can detect ASD easily, fast and accurately. Therefore, ASD can subsequently be treated effectively which in turn can improve the quality of life for patients with ASD and their families.
